b-tree have you ever dreamed I'm going
to Stanford University hey what's up
guys 'happy here I'm making this video
because it's the end of 2019 and one of
the most commonly asked questions in my
comments for the campus choral series is
Harvard vs. Stanford which university do
you think is better if you are new here
I'm the creator of the series called
campus crawl where I take you to the top
universities in the world and show you
what student life and the campus is like
over there right now I'm actually on my
way back home from a recent campus crowd
trip stay tuned to find out what that is
so today we're gonna compare them on
different categories and see which one
is the winner let's jump into the video
all right the first category is the
campus I mean the series is called
campus crawl so we're definitely going
to talk about the campus first because
the campus is very important it's where
you'll be hanging around all four years
of your life both campuses have very
different architectural styles and
Stanford is more of a Romanesque style
where it's kind of like flat and it's
newer Harvard has a Georgian style where
it's rooted in history it's made of red
bricks but it's kind of old the winner
here definitely goes to Stanford
University and the reason is because
Stanford is so big and it's in its own
secluded area
Stanford is extremely quiet calm and
peaceful making it very easy to focus on
your studies another thing is the
Stanford campus has a lot of new
buildings and especially the engineering
buildings they're so new and so
high-tech all the engineering classes
are equipped with 4k cameras that record
every single class so you can read
listen to all your lectures online the
campus
looks like a beach resort you know it's
something that you would probably
vacation the only thing is Stanford's
campus is not as convenient as Harvard
University's campus but we'll talk about
that later in the location category R
before we move on to the next category
we got to give a huge shout-out to our
sponsor today good wall so good wall is
a community for motivated students and
young entrepreneurs to connect it's a
mobile app and on the app you can
discover opportunities such as
scholarships and jobs so it's kind of
like LinkedIn made especially for US
students and on the app you can build
your own personal profile and showcase
all your accomplishments achievements
and ideas and share that with the
community that's going to support you so
after you build your profile you can
click to the connections tab and connect
with different people with your same
interest or within your same school
that's why I'm telling you about this
you can search up people from Stanford
University Harvard University or
Columbia universities anywhere in the
world on the app and you can private
message them or invite them to a group
chat so you can ask some questions and
connect and you know share your ideas
and the other interesting part is
there's an opportunities tab or you can
find scholarships jobs or internships
and I know a lot of you are looking for
that so that's why I think good wall is
a really good sponsor and something that
you guys are gonna enjoy as well and to
top it off I'll be doing a Q&A on the
app on January 15 5 p.m. PST so the best
way for you to join us in this Q&A
session is to search in your groups and
find the group right here so join the
group and you'll get notified when we
have that Q&A session and normally I'll
be checking in as well go download the
app link in description now let's jump
into the next category so the next
category is student life and I think
student life is probably the most
important thing after academics because
you're gonna be spending four years of
your life at a single location so you
want that life to be something that fits
your personality and something that you
enjoy so this category will go to
Harvard University and the reason is
because Harvard student life is just so
diverse and there's so much for you to
do
that's a Harvard rowing team and the
best part is that the school is
integrated with the can bridge city so
that means it's very easy for you to go
out at night or go out shopping or go
out eating with your friends so that
social life is there also there's a lot
of extracurricular activities to do at
Harvard University for example there's
EMT there's fraternities there's clubs
that you can join and the best thing is
that at Harvard there's a lot of notable
alumni that come to speak at the schools
so you get to interact with a huge
network of people that you probably
wouldn't find anywhere else so the
winner for the best student life goes to
Harvard University the next category is
going to be academics and honestly both
of these schools are top universities in
the world so you can't go around with
either one but I think your choice
ultimately depends on what major you
want to study whereas Stanford is
generally known for its CES and
engineering where Harvard is more known
for its humanitary Studies and liberal
arts studies but I think the winner for
me personally goes to Stanford
University and the reason is because I
like the culture at Stanford where it's
very practical from the students I've
interviewed they say that the teacher
try to get you
to implement what you learn into real
life and we're as Harvard is more
theoretical so I think that practical
learning is extremely important I can't
really speak too much about the
academics so we're gonna keep this
section short you should do your own
research but generally I think Stanford
is more known for its practical learning
our next step is location and I think
location is something that is often
overlooked in the college decision
process because a location decides one
the weather but also the vibe of the
whole entire University and the winner
for the best University location goes to
Harvard University and this was a really
tough choice because each has its pros
and cons but I think the main reason why
I chose Harvard is because it's
integrated into the candidate city so
that means it's very very convenient
being a student living at Harvard
University but the main drawback of
Harvard is its brutal winters Boston
winters can get extremely cold unlike
more sensitive in California where it's
pretty much somewhere all year long
that's why this one was really hard it
kind of depends if you can handle the
cold or not and there's another thing at
Stanford that students always say the
Stanford bubble where it means all the
students at Stanford are kind of a
chapped in the bubble and the huge
campus of Stanford and the reason is
because sanfur is located 15 minutes
away from Palo Alto which is a small
town 45 minutes away from San Francisco
so Stanford is in
like the middle of nowhere and all
around Stanford there's not much to do
all the students just basically hang out
on the campus so you don't really get
out too much unless you make effort so
that's why I love the Harvard location
is because you can easily integrate into
the city and you learn from people that
are not just students all right this
next category is something that you
probably are considering when you think
of these two big names Stanford and
Harvard its brand recognition it's
probably a major reason why you choose
these universities because when you're
growing up as a kid everyone's talking
about it they are the top of the top and
it is what you should aim for but the
winner here definitely goes to Harvard
University because Harvard is a way more
well known brand throughout the whole
entire world I mean just look at my
campus crowd series Harvard has 10 times
the views as Stanford University if you
say Harvard to pretty much anyone in the
world they know what you are talking
about however the caveat here is that in
the tech scene if you want to work in
startups or tech companies Stanford
might be a better pick for you because
if you got a computer science degree or
is something related as Stanford it
probably means that you are very
connected to the Silicon Valley area and
which means you're very connected to the
startups so that brand recognition is
there for Stanford but generally Harvard
is a way more recognizable brand in the
whole entire world but neither of these
brands are lacking in any sense and
leading from brand recognition is job
prospects so how likely are you able to
find a high paying job after you
graduate from the college the winner
here goes to Stanford University and the
reason is because there's a lot of
internship opportunities at Stanford
University but there's also a lot of
internship opportunities on our sponsors
app good wall and my
be a little bit biased in my opinion
here because most of the people that I
talk to as Stanford University were in
the computer science or engineering
faculties which means after they
graduate they're almost guaranteed jobs
in the tech scene and those jobs
starting salaries are 100k to 200k USD
per year that is insane amount of money
that you get right after graduation so
that's what I'm basing my opinion on and
that's why I give the win to Stanford
University all right this is gonna be a
short one it's athletics this is a big
part of university culture but the win
here for sure goes to Stanford
University
because Stanford is ranked number one in
the whole entire country for athletics
it has the most trophies out of all the
sports look at their Hall of Champions
that is so amazing it looks like it's
from a video game I love it there and
the whole school gets together for the
big game annually so there's definitely
that sports competitive vibe at Stanford
and you can feel the student love for
the Cardinals which is the Stanford
sports team all right this is the last
category and it is student traditions
it's something that I try to do with the
campus Karl series that's kind of unique
I think both schools have really really
weird student traditions so i'ma make it
a tie Stanford has something called
fountain hopping where people swim in
fountains during the summer like a
swimming pool I've never seen that
before because they hop from fountain to
fountain and they have like 14 or 15 of
these fountains so all days
circle around pretty fun actually at
Harvard one of this traditions I was
told is that before people graduate from
their undergraduate degree they have to
pee on a John Harvard statue oh it's
gonna be like bad luck or something and
I think that is probably the weirdest
student tradition I
ever heard of at any University so
Stanford is fun Harvard is a little bit
weird but both of their own very unique
student traditions all right so we went
through all the different categories now
it's time to pick a winner Stanford
University versus Harvard University
which is better and the winner in my
humble opinion goes to Stanford
University that might be a shock to a
lot of you guys but honestly both
universities are really good if you get
accepted to any of them that is
something to be admired and to be
congratulated however I think the
Stanford is a little bit better because
it is a little bit more modern and it is
more practical the weather at Stanford
is really really nice after you graduate
from University you're able to find an
extremely high paying job which is
something that we are all looking for as
University of students right that's not
to say Harvard can't provide you the
same things and my ultimate vice for you
is to choose a school that you think
will best fit your personality and that
will best fit your major because each
school kind of performs better in
different majors and definitely visit
these campuses if you can but if you
can't watch my campus crowd series and
they give you a sense of what living
there and studying there will be like
hit the subscribe button because YouTube
is not gonna push you every single video
so you might miss some and hit the like
button as well if you enjoyed watching
this video my name is half a go and stay
tuned for another episode of campus crow
pizza
[Music]
you